Squall 
------

  Squall is a preprocessor that builds well-typed SML wrappers for SQL queries
and statements. It reads a description file containing a list of statements
with associated type information, and produces source for an SML structure with
one function for each statement.

Each declaration has the following form:

  --- funcname: intype -> outype
  SELECT ... from ... ? ...

  Any query supported by the database engine can be used. Squall does not parse
the SQL template except, under certain circumstances, to determine the frst
keyword; see below. When the generated function is run, each question mark
character ("?") in the provided SQL will be replaced by its positionally-
corresponding input parameter. The SQL must contain the correct number of ?
symbols for the specified parameters.
 
  The syntax for specifying input and output types is deliberately very close to
that of SML. The input type can be one of the following:

  unit                 No input; no ? substitutions in the SQL.
  typ (* typ * ...)    Single value or tuple of values.
  { foo: typ; ...}     Record. Since SML records are not ordered, the order in
                         which fields are listed in the Squall description file
                         is the order in which they will be mapped.

  Defined output types are:

  unit                No output. The wrapper checks to ensure that the query
                        returns no rows.
  typ (* typ * ...)   The query must return a single row; its columns are
                        returned as a tuple of the given types.
  { foo: typ; ... }   As above, but columns are mapped to fields in the record
                        according to their order in the description field.
  ... list            Either of the above two options may be speciied as a
                        list. In this case, all rows are eager-loaded (using
                        mysql_store_result) into a normal SML list.
  ... array/vector    As with list; rows are then converted to an array/vector.
  ... option          As above; the query must return either zero rows or one
                        row, which correspond to NONE or SOME (rowtype).
  affected_rows       Special. Functions declared as "-> affected_rows" must
                        return no result set, as with return type unit; the
                        wrapper function then returns the result of calling
                        mysql_affected_rows(). 
  insert_id           Analogous to affected_rows, but for mysql_insert_id().

  Note that list is the "native" version; arrays and vectors are converted from
a list. This is included largely for completeness' sake.

  Currently, Smelt supports the following column types:

  string             String. For MySQL, this is escaped using
                     mysql_real_escape_string, quoted, and substituted.
  int                Int.int. Encoded with Int.toString; decoded with
                     Int.fromString.
  word               LargeWord.word. Encoded with LargeWord.toString; decoded
                     with LargeWord.fromString.

  As implemented, Smelt uses the standard libmysqlclient functions, rather than
its prepared statement API. This means that the database and libmysqlclient
convert all returned values to strings, regarldess of their type according to
the DB engine. Smelt then produces code to convert each field back to the
appropriate type.

  Future work:
- Lazy loading from the database (mysql_use_result())
- Use prepared statements
